.\" Man page for simple_shell
.TH simple_shell 1 "15 May 2022" "1.0" "Simple_Shell Program Manual"
.SH NAME
hsh - command interpreter (shell).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ./hsh [enter/return] command [option] [option] [file/directory name] ...
.PP
.B #include "main.h"
.PP
.B #include <stdio.h>
.PP
.B #include <string.h>
.PP
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.PP
.B #include <unistd.h>
.PP
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.PP
.B #include <sys/wait.h>
.PP
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.PP
.B int main(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
The hsh shell is a simple command line interpreter for the system. It takes in commands such as ls, pwd, echo, grep, exit, as well as builtins like cd. 
.BI Overview
The shell is a program that reads lines from a file or the terminal, interprets them, and executes other commands. The simple_shell is a command line interface (CLI) that uses alphanumeric characters typed into the command line to provide instructions and data to the operating system. The simple_shell takes in a variety of commands including builtins and standard commands like ls, echo, pwd, etc.
.PP
.B About the hsh shell
.PP
The hsh shell is based on the shell created by Ken Thompson at Bell Labs. The first shell
.I (sh)
was distributed with versions 1 through 6 of Unix. The Unix shell laid the groundwork for modern Unix shells with things such as piping, simple control structures, and wildcarding. The simple_shell is much more rudimentary than the Thompson shell as it can only take commands, written with the full path or by searching for the path, and options. The simple_shell mirrors as closely as possible the Thompson shell.
.PP
.B Invocation
When ./hsh is called the shell is put into interactive mode. An interactive shell prompts before each command and handles programming and command errors differently. The command line interprets arguments passed to it. If the command line arguments besides options have been specified, then the simple_shell treats the first argument as the name of the file from which to read commands (shell script), and the remaining arguments are set as parameters of the shell. Otherwise the simple_shell reads the commands from standard input. 
.PP
.B Commands
The shell interprets the words it reads according to a language. The simple_shell reads the first first word of a line and if that word is not a reserved word, then the simple_shell has recognized a simple command. Else, a complex command or some special construct may have been recognized.
.PP
.B Path Search
When the simple shell searches for a command, it first looks to see if it has a shell function by that name. It then searches for a builtin function by that name and if it is not found then there are two possible outcomes:
1. Command names containing slashes are executed without searching
2. The simple_shell searches each entry in the environment variable PATH for the command. The value of the PATH variable should be a series of entries separated by colons, each of which consits of a directory name. The current directory name may be indicated implicitly by an empty directory name or a period.
.PP
.B Built-ins
env	prints the environment
exit	exits the interactive simple_shell and any processes running.
.PP
.SH EXIT STATUS
Exiting the shell will exit with zero status.
.SH EXAMPLE
./hsh
.PP
HelloShell$ ls -l
.PP
[lists the files and directories in the current directory in long format]
.PP
HelloShell$ exit
.PP
[exits the shell]
.SH OTHER
.PP
Aliases are not currently supported.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report bugs to jepbonde@gmail.com
.SH SEE ALSO
.R sh
.R dash(3)
.SH AUTHORS
 Yohanes Getinet <johnget496@gmail.com>
 Brenda Bonde <jepbonde@gmail.com>
